# Exercise 1

Let A be the set of students who live within one mile of school and let B be the set of students who walk to classes. Describe the students in each of these sets.

1. Why is f not a function from R to R if

a) f(x) = 1/x?
b) f(x) = √x?
c) f(x) = ±√(x^2 + 1)?

a) f(x) = 1/x is a partial function since the codomain of f is undefined if x = 0  **PERFECT**
b) f(x) = √x is a partial function since the codomain of f is undefined if x is negative **PERFECT**
c) f(x) = ±√(x^2 + 1) is not a function since we don't know the image of x **PERFECT**
Other possibility:
The "rule" for f is ambiguous. We must have f(x) defined uniquely, but here there are two values
associated with every x, the positive square root and the negative square root of x^2 + 1

# Exercise 5

Find the domain and range of these functions. Note that
in each case, to find the domain, determine the set of
elements assigned values by the function.

a) the function that assigns to each bit string the number
of ones in the string minus the number of zeros in the
string

b) the function that assigns to each bit string twice the
number of zeros in that string

c) the function that assigns the number of bits left over
when a bit string is split into bytes (which are blocks
of 8 bits)

d) the function that assigns to each positive integer the
largest perfect square not exceeding this integer

a)
Domain: Every bit strings with at least one 1 and one 0 **WRONG**
Range: Natural Numbers **WRONG**

b) 
Domain: Every bit strings **PERFECT**
Range: Natural Numbers **WRONG** (not precise enough)

c) 
Domain: Every bit strings which has at least 8 elements **WRONG**
Range: Natural Numbers (N) **WRONG**

d) 
Domain: Z+ (positive integers) **PERFECT**
Range: Perfect squares **PERFECT**

# Exercise 7

Find the domain and range of these functions.

a) the function that assigns to each pair of positive integers the maximum of these two integers

b) the function that assigns to each positive integer the number of the digits 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 that do not appear as decimal digits of the integer 

c) the function that assigns to a bit string the number of times the block 11 appears

d) the function that assigns to a bit string the numerical position of the first 1 in the string and that assigns the value 0 to a bit string consisting of all 0s

a) Domain: every pair of positive integers **GOOD**
Range: Maximum of every pair of positive integers in the domain **GOOD**

b) Domain: Every positive integers except every decimal **WRONG**
Range: {0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9} **PERFECT**

c) Domain: any bit string **GOOD** (set of bit strings)
Range: Positive Real numbers **WRONG**

d) Domain: any bit string
Range: Positive real numbers **WRONG**

# Exercise 10. 
Determine whether each of these functions from {a,b,c,d} to itself is one-to-one.

a) f(a) = b, f(b) = a, f(c) = c, f(d) = d
b) f(a) = b, f(b) = b, f(c) = d, f(d) = c
c) f(a) = d, f(b) = b, f(c) = c, f(d) = d

a) This is one-to-one **PERFECT**
b) This is not one-to-one **PERFECT**
c) This is not one to one **PERFECT**

# Exercise 11

 Determine whether each of these functions from {a,b,c,d} to itself is onto
a) f(a) = b, f(b) = a, f(c) = c, f(d) = d
b) f(a) = b, f(b) = b, f(c) = d, f(d) = c
c) f(a) = d, f(b) = b, f(c) = c, f(d) = d

a) Yes, onto (the range is {a,b,c,d}) **PERFECT** 
b) Not onto (the range is {b,c,d}) **PERFECT**
c) Not onto (the range is {b,c,d}) **PERFECT**

# Exercise 12

Determine whether each of these functions from Z to Z is onto

a) f(n) = n − 1
b) f(n) = n^2 + 1
c) f(n) = n^3
d) f(n) = ceil(n/2)

The range needs to be Z

a) Yes **PERFECT**
Precision: Every integer is 1 less than any other integer. f(x+1) = x
b) No. Negative integers are not part of the range. **PERFECT**
c) No. 2 is not part of the range for example. **PERFECT**
d) Yes **PERFECT**
Precision: f(2x) = ceil(2x/2) = ceil(x) = x, for all x which are in Z

# Exercise 15

Determine whether the function f: Z × Z → Z is onto if
a) f(m,n) = m + n.
b) f(m,n) = m^2 + n^2 .
c) f(m,n) = m.
d) f(m,n) = |n|.
e) f(m,n) = m − n.

a) Every integer is the addition of any other integer, thus this function is onto. **GOOD**
Precision: f(0,n) = n
b) This function is not into since the range doesn't include any negative integer. **PERFECT**
c) This function is into, m could be any integer. **PERFECT** 
Precision: f(m,25) = m for any value of n in the domain
d) This function is not into, the range doesn't include any negative integer **PERFECT**
e) This function is into since every integer is the subtraction of any other integer. **GOOD**
Precision: f(m, 0) = m

# Exercise 17

Consider these functions from the set of teachers in a school. Under what conditions is the function one-to-one if it assigns to a teacher his or her

a) office.
b) assigned bus to chaperone in a group of buses taking
students on a field trip.
c) salary.
d) social security number.


A one to one function is a function which every element of the range is not assigned more than once to an element of the domain.

a) The function would be one to one if teachers have only one and only one office. **PERFECT**
b) The function is one to one if one teacher has only one bus assigned. **PERFECT**
c) The function is one to one iff nobody has the same salary. **PERFECT**
d) The function is one to one since every social security number are different. **PERFECT**

# Exercise 21

Give an explicit formula for a function from the set of integers to the set of positive integers that is
a) one-to-one, but not onto.
b) onto, but not one-to-one.
c) one-to-one and onto.
d) neither one-to-one nor onto.

a) f(-x) = x^2
b) f(x) = x^2
c) f(x) = (x+1)^2
d) f(x) = x/2

**NO CLUE IF IT'S GOOD**
