## Exercise 1

Use a direct proof to show that the sum of two odd integers is even.

In order to prove that the sum of two odd numbers is even we will use a direct proof. Let imagine we have two odd numbers a and b which have the form 2k + 1.
Therefore:
(2t+1) + (2i+1) = 2y
2t+2k = 2y-2
2(t+k) = 2(y-2)

Since both of the side of the equation have the form 2k+1, we can conclude that the sum of odd number is always even.

**PERFECT** (?)

Can be proven as well with a+ b = (2s + 1) + (2t + 1) = 2(s + t + 1)

## Exercise 3

Show that the square of an even number is an even number using a direct proof.

Let say that a is an even number. We know that an even number can be noted 2k. Therefore:
2k ^2 = 4k ^ 2 = 2(2k^2)
Since 2(2k^2) if of form 2k, the result of the square of an even number is an even number.

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 5

Prove that if m + n and n + p are even integers, where m,n, and p are integers, then m + p is even. What kind of proof did you use?

m + n = 2k
n + p = 2i
m + p = 2y?

How to combine these equality in an equation to use direct proof?


**WRONG** 

Didn't find the solution...

## Exercise 7

Use a direct proof to show that every odd integer is the difference of two squares.

**WRONG**

Can't find the solution for that either

## Exercise 15

Prove that if m and n are integers and mn is even, then m is even or n is even.

## Exercise 16

**WRONG**

solution: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jbztiFngLiU

## Exercise 17

**WRONG** Need to see how to refactor function properly with variables and exponents..

## Exercise 21

Let P(n) be the proposition “If a and b are positive real numbers, then (a + b)^n ≥ a^n + b^n .” Prove that P(1) is true. What kind of proof did you use?

P(1) = (a + b)^1 ≥ a^1 + b^1

We will use a direct proof. We know that a number raised to the power of 1 is equals to itself. Therefore (a + b)^1 = a + b = a^1 + b^1.
Therefore (a + b)^1 and a^1 + b^1 will always be equals.

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 23

Show that at least ten of any 64 days chosen must fall on the same day of the week.

We will use a direct proof. We know that there are 7 different days in a calendar. Therefore we must choose 64 / 7 days which fall the same day of the week. The result is 9 with a remainder of 1, for a total of a minimum of 10 same days we need to select.

**GOOD**
