## Exercise 1

e: “You can edit a protected Wikipedia entry”
a: “You are an administrator.”

NOT p unless Not q

e -> a

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 3

g: “You can graduate”
m: “You owe money to the university”
r: “You have completed the requirements of your major,”
b: “You have an overdue library book.”

g <-> ( r AND NOT m AND NOT b)

**WRONG**
Recall that p only if q means p -> q
g -> ( r AND NOT m AND NOT b)

## Exercise 40

a) ¬p ∨ ¬q
b) ¬(p ∨ (¬p ∧ q))

**NOT CORRECTED**

## Exercise 17

When three professors are seated in a restaurant, the hostess asks them: “Does everyone want coffee?” The first
professor says: “I do not know.” The second professor
then says: “I do not know.” Finally, the third professor
says:“No,not everyone wants coffee.”The hostess comes
back and gives coffee to the professors who want it. How
did she figure out who wanted coffee?

If the third professor is sure that not everybody wants a coffee, even if the two other professor don't know, it means that the third professor himself doesn't want a coffee.
The first professor doesn't know if everybody wants a coffee and the second either. It means that they want a coffee, otherwise they would know that not everybody want a coffee, including themselves. 
Hence the two first professors want a coffee.

**PERFECT**


Exercises 19–23 relate to inhabitants of the island of knights
and knaves created by Smullyan, where knights always tell
the truth and knaves always lie. You encounter two people,
A and B. Determine, if possible, what A and B are if they
address you in the ways described. If you cannot determine
what these two people are, can you draw any conclusions?

## Exercise 19.

A says “At least one of us is a knave” and B says nothing.

If B says nothing we can imagine he agrees what A is saying. If A is a knight, B is a knave and would have lied to contradict the knight. Hence A is not a knight.
If A is a Knave, he would lie. However he doesn't by saying that one of them is a knave. 
Since A can't be a knight or a knave, this problem is a contradiction and can't be solved.

**WRONG**

… not saying anything doesn't mean B agree. That was my mistake.


If A is a knight, then he is telling the truth, in which case B must be a knave. Since B said nothing, that
is certainly possible. If A is a knave, then he is lying, which means that his statement that at least one of
them is a knave is false; hence they are both knights. That is a contradiction. So we can conclude that A is
a knight and B is a knave.

## Exercise 21

A says “I am a knave or B is a knight” and B says nothing.

If A is a knight, he is not a Knave and therefore B is a knight, which is possible.
If A is a knave, B would not be a knight and therefore both are knave.

These two solutions are possible.

**WRONG**

If A is a knight, then he is telling the truth, in which case B must be a knight as well, since A is not a knave.
(If p V q and •p are both true, then q must be true.) Since B said nothing, that is certainly possible. If A
is a knave, then his statement is patently true, but that is a contradiction to the behavior of knaves. So we
can conclude that A is a knight and B is a knight.

## Exercise 41

a) ¬(p ∧ (q ∨ ¬r))
b) (¬p ∧ ¬q) ∨ (p ∧ r)

**PERFECT**

