## Exercise 1

List the members of these sets.
   a) {x | x is a real number such that x^2 = 1}
   b) {x | x is a positive integer less than 12}
   c) {x | x is the square of an integer and x < 100}
   d) {x | x is an integer such that x 2 = 2}

a) {1} **WRONG**
b) {0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11} **WRONG**
c) {1,4,9,16,25,36,49,64,81} **WRONG**
d) {∅} **WRONG**

**WRONG** - missed some subtleties...

## Exercise 3

For each of these pairs of sets,determine whether the first
is a subset of the second,the second is a subset of the first,
or neither is a subset of the other.


a) the set of airline flights from NewYork to New Delhi,
the set of nonstop airline flights from New York to
New Delhi

b) the set of people who speak English, the set of people
who speak Chinese

c) the set of flying squirrels, the set of living creatures
that can fly

a) Set of nonstop airline flights from NY to ND is subset of set of airline flight from NY to ND.
b) Neither is a subset of the other.
c) The set of flying squirrels is the subset of the set of living creatures that can fly.

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 5

Determine whether each of these pairs of sets are equal.

a) {1,3,3,3,5,5,5,5,5},{5,3,1}
b) {{1}},{1,{1}} 
c) ∅,{∅}

a) equal (order and repetion doesn't matter)
b) not equal (First set has one element, second has two elements)
c) not equal (First set has no element, the second has one element)

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 7

For each of the following sets, determine whether 2 is an
element of that set.

a) {x ∈ R|x is an integer greater than 1}
b) {x ∈ R|x is the square of an integer}
c) {2,{2}} 
d) {{2},{{2}}}
e) {{2},{2,{2}}} 
f) {{{2}}}

a) yes, 2 is an integer greaten than 1 **PERFECT**
b) no, 2 is no square of any integer **PERFECT**
c) yes, 2 is one of the element of the set **PERFECT**
d) yes, 2 is an element of a subset and therefore of the set **WRONG**
e) yes **WRONG**
f) we don't know, 2 is an element of a subset of subset, therefore it's not necessarily part of the set **WRONG**

The set {2} inside the set {{2}} is not a subset!!

## Exercise 9

Determine whether each of these statements is true or
false.
a) 0 ∈ ∅ 
b) ∅ ∈ {0}
c) {0} ⊂ ∅ 
d) ∅ ⊂ {0}
e) {0} ∈ {0} 
f) {0} ⊂ {0}
g) {∅} ⊆ {∅}

a) False. An empty set has no element.
b) False. The empty set is not part of the set {0}
c) False. for {0} to be a subset of ∅, 0 needs to exists in ∅ which is not the case. 
*∅ has no proper subset in fact.*
d) True. For ∅ to be a subset of {0}, ∅ needs to be part of {0} which is the case and {0} needs to have at least one element which is not in  ∅ which is also the case. (∀x(x ∈ A → x ∈ B) ∧ ∃x(x ∈ B ∧ x !∈ A))
*This is true. Every element of the set on the left is, vacuously, an element of the set on the right; and the
set on the right contains an element, namely 0, that is not in the set on the left.*

e) False. The set {0} doesn't exists in the set {0}.
f) False. For {0} to be a proper subset of {0}, they need to share one element (which is true) but the subset needs as well one element which doesn't belong to the set.
In other words, to be proper subsets, two sets can't be equals.
g) True. Both sets have a common element, one is a subset of the other.
*Every set is a subset of itself*

## Exercise 11 

Determine whether each of these statements is true or
false.

a) x ∈ {x}
b) {x} ⊆ {x} 
c) {x} ∈ {x}
d) {x} ∈ {{x}} 
e) ∅ ⊆ {x} 
f) ∅ ∈ {x}

a) TRUE. x exists in the set {x} **PERFECT**
b) FALSE. The set {x} is not a subset of {x} **WRONG**
c) FALSE. The set {x} doesn't exist in {x} (but x does) **PERFECT**
d) TRUE. The set {x} exists in {{x}} **PERFECT**
e) FALSE **WRONG**
Every empty set is a subset of any set

f) FALSE. The only element is x. **PERFECT**

## Exercise 17

Suppose that A,B, and C are sets such that A ⊆ B and B ⊆ C. Show that A ⊆ C.

A ⊆ B can be expressed as ∀x(x ∈ A → x ∈ B) and B ⊆ C can be expressed as ∀x(x ∈ B → x ∈ C)
If x ∈ A, then x ∈ B and x ∈ C. This is enough to show that A ⊆ C.

## Exercise 19

What is the cardinality of each of these sets?
a) {a}
b) {{a}}
c) {a,{a}} 
d) {a,{a},{a,{a}}}

a) 1
b) 1
c) 2
d) 3

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 21

Find the power set of each of these sets, where a and b are distinct elements.

a) {a} 
b) {a,b} 
c) {∅,{∅}}

a) {a}
b) {aa, ab, bb, ba}
c) {∅∅, ∅{∅}}

**WRONG**

## Exercise 25

Prove that P(A) ⊆ P(B) if and only if A ⊆ B.

Let's imagine that A is not a subset of B. In that case, at least one element of A is not in B. 
Since the power set of A is every subset of A, the element not in B won't be in a subset of B.

We can conclude that P(A) ⊆ P(B) iff A ⊆ B.

**GOOD ?**

 ## Exercise 29

 What is the Cartesian product A × B × C, where A is
the set of all airlines and B and C are both the set of all
cities in the United States? Give an example of how this
Cartesian product can be used.

