# Exercise 1

P(x) denote `x ≤ 4`

a: P(0) true
b: P(4) true
c: P(6) false

**PERFECT**

# Exercise 11

 Let P(x) be the statement “x = x₂ .” If the domain consists of the integers, what are these truth values?

a) P(0) T
b) P(1) T
c) P(2) F
d) P(−1) F
e) ∃xP(x) T
f) ∀xP(x) F

**PERFECT**

# Exercise 13

Determine the truth value of each of these statements if the domain consists of all integers.

a) ∀n(n + 1 > n) T
b) ∃n(2n = 3n) T for n = 0
c) ∃n(n = −n) F 
d) ∀n(3n ≤ 4n) F for n negative

**WRONG** 
c) T 0 = -0

# Exercise 15

Determine the truth value of each of these statements if
the domain for all variables consists of all integers.

n2 = n raised to the power of 2

a) ∀n(n2 ≥ 0) 
b) ∃n(n2 = 2)
c) ∀n(n2 ≥ n) 
d) ∃n(n2 < 0)

a) All n raised to the power of 2 is positive which is certainly true even for negative integers: -2 * -2 = 4
b) Some n raised to the power of 2 is strictly equal to 2. This is false: the square root of 2 is not an integer.
c) Every n raised to the power of 2 is greater or equals to n. This is true even for negative number: -2 * -2 = 4
d) Some n raised to the power of 2  are strictly lesser than 0. This is false as proved with a) and c). Square can not be negative.

**PERFECT**

# Exercise 17

Suppose that the domain of the propositional function P(x) consists of the integers 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4. Write out each of these propositions using disjunctions, conjunctions, and negations.

a) ∃xP(x)
P(0) ∨ P(1) ∨ P(2) ∨ P(3) ∨ P(4)

b) ∀xP(x)
P(0) ∧ P(1) ∧ P(2) ∧ P(3) ∧ P(4)

c) ∃x¬P(x)
¬P(0) ∨ ¬P(1) ∨ ¬P(2) ∨ ¬P(3) ∨ ¬P(4)


d) ∀x¬P(x)
¬P(0) ∧ ¬P(1) ∧ ¬P(2) ∧ ¬P(3) ∧ ¬P(4)

e) ¬∃xP(x)
¬(P(0) ∨ P(1) ∨ P(2) ∨ P(3) ∨ P(4))

f) ¬∀xP(x)
¬(P(0) ∧ P(1) ∧ P(2) ∧ P(3) ∧ P(4))

**PERFECT**

Note that by De Morgan's laws, the expression in part (c) is logically equivalent to the expression in part (f), and the expression in part (d) is logically equivalent to the expression in part (e).

# Exercice 23

Translate in two ways each of these statements into logi-
cal expressions using predicates, quantifiers, and logical
connectives. First, let the domain consist of the students
in your class and second, let it consist of all people.

a) Someone in your class can speak Hindi.
b) Everyone in your class is friendly.
c) There is a person in your class who was not born in
California.
d) A student in your class has been in a movie.
e) No student in your class has taken a course in logic
programming.


For H(x) denoted as student in your class

a)
For P(x, y) denoted as student speaking another language y
1) ∃xP(x, Hindie)
2) ∃xP((x, Hindie) ^ H(x))

**GOOd**


b) 
For P(x) denoted as student friendly
1) ∀xP(x)
2) ∀x(P(x) ^ H(x))

**FIXED** 

c)
For P(x) denoted as student born in California
1) ∃x¬P(x)
2) ∃x(¬P(x) ^ H(x))

**GOOD**

d) 
For P(x, y) denoted as student has been in a number of movie y
1) ∃xP(x, 1)
2) ∃xP((x, 1) ^ H(x))

**GOOD**

e) 
For P(x, y) denoted as student has taken a course y 
1) ¬∃xP(x, logic programming)
2) ¬∃x(P(x, logic programming) ^ H(x))

**WRONG(2)**

# Exercise 7

 TranslatethesestatementsintoEnglish,whereC(x)is“x
is a comedian” and F(x) is “x is funny” and the domain
consists of all people.

```
a) ∀x(C(x) → F(x)) 
b) ∀x(C(x) ∧ F(x))
c) ∃x(C(x) → F(x)) 
d) ∃x(C(x) ∧ F(x))
```

a) All are funny comedians 
b) All are comedians and all are funny
c) Some are funny comedians
d) Some are comedians and some are funny

Better solution:

a) "Every comedian is funny"
b) "Every person is a funny comedian". Doesn't make really sens, that's why conjunctions are not often used with universal quantifiers. It's surely false.
c) "There exists a person such that if s/he is a comedian, then s/he is funny". Doesn't really bring anything and surely true. That's why using conditional statements are rarely use with existential quantifiers.
d) "There exists a funny comedian". "Some comedians are funny". "Some funny people are comedians"

# Exercise 8

. Translate these statements into English, where R(x) is “x is a rabbit” and H(x) is “x hops”
and the domain consists of all animals.

```
a) ∀x(R(x) → H(x)) 
b) ∀x(R(x) ∧ H(x))
c) ∃x(R(x) → H(x)) 
d) ∃x(R(x) ∧ H(x))
```

a) All rabbits hop
b) Every animal is a rabbit which hops
c) It exists at least one animal that if it's a rabbit, then it's hop
d) There exists a rabbit which hop
