## Exercise 1

Find the argument form for the following argument and
determine whether it is valid. Can we conclude that the
conclusion is true if the premises are true?

If Socrates is human, then Socrates is mortal.
Socrates is human.
---------------------------------------------
∴ Socrates is mortal.

Let's p be "Socrates is human"
Let's q be "Socrates is mortal"

Therefore according to the modus ponen:

p -> q
p
-------
q

We can conclude that the statement q is true since both p -> q and p are true.

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 3

What rule of inference is used in each of these arguments?
a) Alice is a mathematics major. Therefore, Alice is either am athematics
major or a computer science major.
b) Jerry is a mathematics major and a computer science
major. Therefore, Jerry is a mathematics major.
c) If it is rainy, then the pool will be closed. It is rainy.
Therefore, the pool is closed.
d) If it snows today, the university will close. The university is not closed today. 
Therefore, it did not snow today.
e) If I go swimming, then I will stay in the sun too long.
If I stay in thesun toolong,thenIwillsunburn.There-
fore, if I go swimming, then I will sunburn.


a) The rule of addition is used here: p -> (p V q)
b) The rule of simplification is used here (p ^ q) -> p 
c) The rule of modus ponen is used here ((p -> q) ^ p) -> q
d) The rule of modus tollen is used here (p -> q) ^ !q) -> !p
e) The rule of hypothetical syllogism is used here ((p -> q) ^ (q -> r)) -> p -> r 

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 5

Use rules of inference to show that the hypotheses “Randy
works hard,”“If Randy works hard,then he is a dull boy,”
and “If Randy is a dull boy, then he will not get the job”
imply the conclusion “Randy will not get the job.”

Let's p be "Randy works hard", q "Randy is a dull boy", r "Randy will not get the job"

Step               Reason
p                   Hypothesis
p -> q              Hypothesis
-------
q                   Modus ponens
q -> r              Hypothesis
------
r                   Modus ponens

By using two times modus ponens, we had shown that Randy will not get the job.

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 7

 What rules of inference are used in this famous argu
ment? “All men are mortal. Socrates is a man. Therefore,
Socrates is mortal.”

Let's p be socrates, q a man, r is mortal. Therefore:

Step        reason
p -> q      Hypothesis
q -> r      Hypothesis
------
p -> r      Hypothetical syllogism

**WRONG**

## Exercise 13

For each of these arguments, explain which rules of in-
ference are used for each step.

a) “Doug, a student in this class, knows how to write
programs in JAVA.Everyone who knows how to write
programs in JAVA can get a high-paying job. There-
fore,someone in this class can get a high-payingjob.”

b) “Somebody in this class enjoys whale watching. Ev-
ery person who enjoys whale watching cares about
ocean pollution. Therefore, there is a person in this
class who cares about ocean pollution.”

c) “Each of the 93 students in this class owns a personal
computer. Everyone who owns a personal computer
can use a word processing program. Therefore, Zeke,
a student in this class, can use a word processing pro-
gram.”

d) “Everyone in New Jersey lives within 50 miles of the
ocean. Someone in New Jersey has never seen the
ocean.Therefore, someone who lives within 50 miles
of the ocean has never seen the ocean.”

x: A student
P: Programming in java
∃xP(x) 

## Exercise 15

For each of these arguments determine whether the argu-
ment is correct or incorrect and explain why.

a) All students in this class understand logic. Xavier is
a student in this class. Therefore, Xavier understands
logic.
b) Every computer science major takes discrete math-
ematics. Natasha is taking discrete mathematics.
Therefore, Natasha is a computer science major.
c) All parrots like fruit.My pet bird is not a parrot.There-
fore, my pet bird does not like fruit.
d) Everyone who eats granola everyday is healthy.Linda
is not healthy. Therefore, Linda does not eat granola
every day.

a) 


## Exercise 21

“All lions are fierce.”
“Some lions do not drink coffee.”
“Some fierce creatures do not drink coffee.”

Let's take the universal quantifier "for all lions, a lion is fierce". Therefore, a lion is always fierce.
The existential quantifier says that at least a lion doesn't drink a coffee.

If p is a lion and a lion is fierce, then by modus ponent p doesn't drink coffee. If a lion is fierce and doesn't drink coffee, by the existential quantifier p is a fierce creature who doesn't drink coffee which valid the last statement

**GOOD** (the solution is not exactly that... but is it good enough?)

## Execise 23

Identify the error or errors in this argument that supposedly shows that if ∃xP(x) ∧ ∃xQ(x) is true then ∃x(P(x) ∧ Q(x)) is true.

1. ∃xP(x) ∨ ∃xQ(x) Premise (it would be more ∃xP(x) ∧ ∃xQ(x)… is it an error in the book?)
2. ∃xP(x) Simplification from (1)
3. P(c) Existential instantiation from (2)
4. ∃xQ(x) Simplification from (1)
5. Q(c) Existential instantiation from (4)
6. P(c) ∧ Q(c) Conjunction from (3) and (5)
7. ∃x(P(x) ∧ Q(x)) Existential generalization

There is a mistake between step 6 and 7, that is one can not conclude that P(c) ∧ Q(c) implies ∃x(P(x) ∧ Q(x)). The only thing we know is ∃x(P(x)) ∧ ∃x(Q(x)) since P(x) and Q(x) can be true for some different values of x. The problem arise when stating step 3 and 5, since the simplification of both existential quantifier should be a different variable, like P(c) and Q(d) to avoid any confusion.

Said differently:

The error occurs in step (5), because we cannot assume, as is being done here, that the c that makes P true is the same as the c that makes Q true.

**GOOD** - but my explanation is not that clear...

## Exercise 25

Justify the rule of universal modus tollens by showing that the premises ∀x(P(x) → Q(x)) and ¬Q(a) for a particular element a in the domain, imply ¬P(a). 

According to the modus tollen:

¬Q(a)
P(a) → Q(a)
===========
¬P(a)

**WRONG** - if direct proof doesn't work, try proof by contradiction...

## Exercise 31

Use resolution to show that the hypotheses “It is not rain-
ing or Yvette has her umbrella,” “Yvette does not have
her umbrella or she does not get wet,” and “It is raining
orYvette does not get wet” imply that “Yvette does not
get wet.


Let's call p "it is raining", q "Yvettete has her umbrella" and r Yvette does get wet. Therefore

¬p ∨ q 
¬q ∨ ¬r
p ∨ ¬r


¬p ∨ q 
¬q ∨ ¬r
===========
¬p ∨ ¬r
p ∨ ¬r
===========
¬r ∨ ¬r

Therefore Yvette does not get wet

**GOOD**
