# Exercise 1

1. Translate these statements into English, where the domain
for each variable consists of all real numbers.

a) ∀x∃y(x < y)
b) ∀x∀y(((x ≥ 0) ∧ (y ≥ 0)) → (xy ≥ 0))
c) ∀x∀y∃z(xy = z)

a) For all real numbers x it exists at least one real number y such as x is less than y.
b) For all real numbers x and for all real numbers y if x is greater or equals to 0 and if y is greater or equal to 0 then x by y is greater or equals to 0. Or more simply the product of non negative number has a non negative results.
c) For all real numbers x and all real numbers y there is at least one real number z which is equals to the product of x and y

** PERFECT **

## Exercise 9

Let L(x,y) be the statement “x loves y,” where the do-
main for both x and y consists of all people in the world.
Use quantifiers to express each of these statements.
a) Everybody loves Jerry.
b) Everybody loves somebody.
c) There is somebody whom everybody loves.
d) Nobody loves everybody.
e) There is somebody whom Lydia does not love.
f) There is somebody whom no one loves.
g) There is exactly one person whom everybody loves.
h) There are exactly two people whom Lynn loves.
i) Everyone loves himself or herself.
j) There is someone who loves no one besides himself
or herself.

a) ∀xL(x, Jerry) **GOOD**
b) ∀x∃yL(x, y) **GOOD**
c) ∃y∀xL(x, y) **GOOD** // different than ∀x∃yL(x, y) "everybody loves somebody"
d) ¬∃x∀yL(x, y) // There is no one who loves everybody **GOOD**
e) ¬∃y(Lidia, y) **GOOD**
f) ∃y¬∀xL(x, y)  **WRONG (2)**
g) ∃!y∀xL(x, y) **GOOD**
or g) ∃y∀xL(x, (y ∧ y != x)) **WRONG**
h) **WRONG**
i) ∀x∃yL(x, (y ∧ y = x)) **WRONG (2)**
j) ∃x∃yL(x, (y ∧ y = x)) **WRONG (2)**

# Exercice 11 

Let S(x) be the predicate “x is a student,” F(x) the predicate “x is a faculty member,” and A(x,y) the predicate
“x has asked y a question,” where the domain consists of
all people associated with your school. Use quantifiers to
express each of these statements.

a) Lois has asked Professor Michaels a question.
b) Every student has asked Professor Gross a question.
c) Every faculty member has either asked Professor
Miller a question or been asked a question by Professor Miller.
d) Some student has not asked any faculty member a
question.
e) There is a faculty member who has never been asked
a question by a student.
f) Some student has asked every faculty member a question.
g) There is a faculty member who has asked every other
faculty member a question.
h) Some student has never been asked a question by a
faculty member.

a) ∃x∃y(A(S(x),F(y))) **WRONG (2)**
b) ∀x∃y(F(s(x),F(y))) **WRONG (2)**
c) A(∀y, F(y)) ∨ A(F(y), ∀y) **WRONG (2)**
d) ¬A(∃xS(x) -> F(y)) **WRONG**
e) ¬∀x∃y(A(F(x), F(y)) **WRONG**
f) ∃x∀y(A(F(x), F(y))) **WRONG**
g) ∃y∀y(A(F(x), F(y)) ∧ (x != y))  **WRONG**
h) ∃x∀y(A(F(y), F(x))) **WRONG**

## Exercise 29 

Suppose the domain of the propositional function P(x,y)
consists of pairs x and y, where x is 1, 2, or 3 and y is
1, 2, or 3.Write out these propositions using disjunctions
and conjunctions.
a) ∀x∀yP(x,y) 
b) ∃x∃yP(x,y)
c) ∃x∀yP(x,y) 
d) ∀y∃xP(x,y)

a)P((1 ∧ 2 ∧ 3) ∧ (1 ∧ 2 ∧ 3))
b)P((1 V 2 V 3) ∧ (1 V 2 V 3))
c)P((1 V 2 V 3) ∧ (1 ∧ 2 ∧ 3))
d)P((1 ∧ 2 ∧ 3) ∧ (1 V 2 V 3))

**WRONG** 

## Exercise 31

Express the negations of each of these statements so that
all negation symbols immediately precede predicates.
a) ∀x∃y∀zT(x,y,z)
b) ∀x∃yP(x,y) ∨ ∀x∃yQ(x,y)
c) ∀x∃y(P(x,y) ∧ ∃zR(x,y,z))
d) ∀x∃y(P(x,y) → Q(x,y))

a) ∃x∀y∃z¬T(x,y,z) **GOOD**
b) ∃x∀y¬P(x,y) ∨ ∃x∀y¬Q(x,y) **WRONG(2)**
c) ∃x∀y(¬P(x,y) ∨ ∃z¬R(x,y,z)) **FIXED** 
d) ∃x∀y(¬P(x,y) → ¬Q(x,y)) **WRONG(2)** 

## Exercice 25

Translate each of these nested quantifications into an En-
glish statement that expresses a mathematical fact. The
domain in each case consists of all real numbers.

a) ∃x∀y(xy = y)

b) ∀x∀y(((x < 0) ∧ (y < 0)) → (xy > 0))

c) ∃x∃y((x 2 > y) ∧ (x < y))

d) ∀x∀y∃z(x + y = z)


a) The product of some x with all y is equal to y
OR there exists a real number x such that for every real number y, the product xy equals y.

b) For all x positive and all y positive the product of xy is greater than 0
OR The product of two negative real numbers is always a positive real number.

c) For some x and some y the square of x is greater than y and x is less than y
OR There exist real numbers x and y such that x 2 exceeds y but x is less than y.

d) For all x and All y it exists some z where x + y equals z
OR This says that for every pair of real numbers x and y , there exists a real number z that is their sum. In
other words, the real numbers are closed under the operation of addition, another true fact. (Some authors
would include the uniqueness of z as part of the meaning of the word closed.

**PERFECT**

## Exercise 33

a) ¬∀x∀yP(x,y) 

b) ¬∀y∃xP(x,y)

c) ¬∀y∀x(P(x,y) ∨ Q(x,y))

d) ¬(∃x∃y¬P(x,y) ∧ ∀x∀yQ(x,y))

e) ¬∀x(∃y∀zP(x,y,z) ∧ ∃z∀yP(x,y,z))


a) ∃x∃y¬P(x,y) 

b) ∃y∀x¬P(x,y)

c) ∃y∃x(¬P(x,y) ∧ ¬Q(x,y))

d) (∀x∀yP(x,y)) ∨ (∃x∃y¬Q(x,y))

**PERFECT**
