# Exercise 1

Let A be the set of students who live within one mile of school and let B be the set of students who walk to classes. Describe the students in each of these sets.

a) A ∩ B
b) A ∪ B
c) A − B 
d) B − A

a) Students who live within one mile of school and who walk to class.
b) Students who live within one mile of school or who walk to class
c) Students who live within one mile of school and don't walk to class
d) Students who walk to class and doesn't live within one mile of school

**PERFECT**

# Exercise 3

Let A = {1,2,3,4,5} and B = {0,3,6}. Find:

a) A ∪ B. 
b) A ∩ B.
c) A − B. 
d) B − A.

a) {0,1,2,3,4,5,6}
b) {3}
c) {1,2,4,5}
d) {0,6}

**PERFECT**

# Exercise 5

Prove the complementation law in Table 1 by showing
that the complementary of the complementary of A = A

The complementary of A is everything which is not in A, that is the whole universe U - A. The complementary of U - A is everything which is in A but not in the universe, therefore A.
We can state the problem in a different way:

complementary of the complementary of A = {x | ¬(¬xεA)} = {x | xεA}

# Exercise 33 

Find the symmetric difference of the set of computer science majors at a school and the set of mathematics majors
at this school.

The symmetric difference is every majors at school which are either science majors or mathematics majors but not both.

**PERFECT**

# Exercise 35
Show that A ⊕ B = (A ∪ B) − (A ∩ B)

The symmetric difference of A and B is every elements which are either in A or in B but on in both.
The union of A and B are every elements in A, B and both. Hence, we need to subtract the intersection of A and B (elements which are both in A and B) to the union of A and B to obtain the symmetric difference.

**PERFECT**

# Exercise 37

Show that if A is a subset of a universal set U, then

a) A ⊕ A = ∅
b) A ⊕ ∅ = A
c) A ⊕ U = A_
d) A ⊕ A_ = U

a) The symmetric difference of a set and itself is an empty set, since every elements are all in A.
b) The symmetric difference of a set A and an empty set is always the set itself (A). There is no element in the empty set, that is, every element of the set A are in the symmetric difference.
c) The symmetric difference of a set A and the universe is the complementary of the set A itself. Shared elements in U and A are not in the symmetric difference, therefore everything which is not in A is in the symmetric difference.
d) NO element can be both in a set and its complementary. Therefore, every element of the universe is the symmetric difference of a set and its complementary set.

**WRONG** Didn't really show anything...
